---
title: About me
tags:
categories:
date: 2024-08-31
lastMod: 2024-08-31
---
While physics was my first love, it took me almost 30 years to understand that philosophy is the real one. I entered the Faculty of Physics in Măgurele in 1985. I wanted to understand how the world is made. In 1989 I began to specialize in the theory of nonlinear systems, while working with a research team developing nuclear fusion experiments (in a remarkable, for its time, mini "tokamak"). My probable research career ended suddenly in the aftermath of the 1990 revolution, when many good scientists and teachers fled to Western universities and research centers, and I decided to take the new option: business. I left school in 1990 and finished my studies in 2000 without passing the licensing exam before moving to France.

Since 1990, I have worked in some big companies and started my own: an advertising agency, one of the first online Internet TV's in Romania, a heirloom tomato farm and, the last one, Athanor La Coupteur, a restaurant; physics became a distant memory, difficult to distinguish from a dream. This eclectic career told everyone, except myself, that I hadn't found my vocation.

This realization came late, when a few years ago I was going through old notes and saw that for 20 years I had made many mentions and short notes around the idea of "reality". I understood that although I had chosen physics as my vocation, what really interested me was the nature of what we call "reality"; how do we distinguish what is real from what we think is real? Isn't reality something more in my brain than in the world? I began reading Kant and Schopenhauer, with forays into the writings of all the great philosophers who touched on the subject. I soon found myself in a maze of notes and books and realized that I had to study properly. But first I had to finish what I'd started. So in the year 2023, 33 years after I gave up my studies, after more than half a year of studying almost all the disciplines I had learned 35 years ago, I took the licensing exam at the Faculty of Physics. It was strange and really difficult (the brain works differently at 50), but also enlightening. I understood physics as I never could have in my youth. I realized that my vocation was philosophy, not physics. When you learn classical and quantum mechanics at an older age, you get a new point of view. You understand that mathematical formalism (which easily fascinates a young mind) is just formalism, and to some extent an arbitrary language. You can see how ideas and concepts relate to each other; you can focus on meaning, not results; you can see the forest for the trees. It was clear to me that my interest was in meaning, not in results. This is not what a good scientist does. But it's essential for a philosopher.

This fall (2024) I will start a Master's degree in Analytical Philosophy, so that my quest for the nature of reality will be a formal one. Better understand how to think like those you disagree with before you tell them they're wrong :) One of the advantages of being close to 60 is that you have learned that there is a big difference between theory and the real world, something that is not so obvious when you are young. The hidden sin of modern philosophy, in my opinion, is that it has lost touch with people's real lives. So the aim of this blog, apart from sharing my thoughts on what I read[^1], is to answer a question that philosophy stopped asking some time ago: what good can an ordinary person get from philosophy? How can understanding being, language, reality, and metaphysics help us live better lives?

[^1]: As one of my friends rightly observed, nobody is interested in what you think. Everybody is interested in what they think :) However, sometimes it happens that what they think is related to some writer's ramblings; I can only hope for this rare case.